README.md, before:

# Verdex MCP

> **AI-First Browser Automation for Building Robust Playwright Tests**

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@verdex/mcp.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@verdex/mcp)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![MCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Model%20Context%20Protocol-green.svg)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)

Verdex is an experimental Chrome/CDP MCP server that helps AI coding assistants (like Cursor, Claude, etc.) author stable, maintainable Playwright tests. Instead of generating brittle `nth()` selectors, Verdex provides structured DOM exploration tools that guide LLMs to create component-scoped selectors anchored to semantic identifiers.

**🎯 Problem**: AI-generated Playwright tests often rely on fragile positional selectors (`nth(8)`, deep locator chains) that break when DOM structure changes.

**✨ Solution**: Verdex exposes token-efficient DOM exploration primitives that help AI understand page structure and generate idiomatic, stable Playwright selectors.

---

## ✨ Key Features

- **🔍 Structured DOM Exploration** - Three-step workflow (`get_ancestors` → `get_siblings` → `get_descendants`) to understand page structure with minimal tokens (100-1K per call vs. 10K+ for raw DOM dumps)
- **👥 Multi-Role Isolation** - Test multi-user flows in isolated browser contexts with pre-loaded authentication
- **🎯 Semantic Selector Generation** - Guide LLMs to create selectors using `data-testid`, `getByRole()`, and content filters instead of brittle positions
- **🤖 AI-First Design** - Built for LLM consumption with compact, structured responses and clear tool descriptions
- **🔒 CDP-Powered Isolation** - Each role runs in isolated JavaScript execution contexts, preventing interference with app code

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

Verdex uses a **bundled bridge injection** approach for maximum stability and debuggability:

- **Pre-bundled Bridge**: DOM analysis code is bundled once with esbuild (not serialized on every page load)
- **CDP Auto-Injection**: Bridge automatically injects into a named isolated world via `Page.addScriptToEvaluateOnNewDocument`
- **Event-Driven Discovery**: Uses `Runtime.executionContextCreated` to track isolated worlds across navigations
- **SPA-Aware**: Distinguishes full navigations from same-document transitions to minimize stalls
- **Source Maps**: Dev builds include inline source maps for easy debugging with Chrome DevTools

This architecture eliminates brittle string serialization and ensures the bridge survives page reloads, full navigations, and SPA route changes.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Install via npx (no installation required)

```bash
npx @verdex/mcp@latest
```

### 2. Add to your MCP settings

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "verdex": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["@verdex/mcp@latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

### 3. Use with your AI coding assistant

```
User: "Help me write a Playwright test that adds an iPhone to the cart"

AI: Let me explore the page structure first...
  → get_ancestors(ref="e3") 
  → Finds [data-testid="product-card"] container
  → get_siblings() 
  → Sees 12 product cards
  → get_descendants() 
  → Finds unique "iPhone 15 Pro" heading

AI generates:
  await page
    .getByTestId("product-card")
    .filter({ hasText: "iPhone 15 Pro" })
    .getByRole("button", { name: "Add to Cart" })
    .click();
```

**vs. typical AI output without Verdex:**
```javascript
await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Add to Cart' }).nth(8); // 😱 Fragile!
```

---

## 📦 Installation

### Option 1: npx (Recommended)

Run directly without installation:

```bash
npx @verdex/mcp@latest
```

### Option 2: Global Installation

```bash
npm install -g @verdex/mcp
verdex-mcp
```

### Option 3: Local Development

```bash
git clone https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp.git
cd verdex-mcp
npm install
npm run build
node dist/index.js
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Basic MCP Configuration

Add to your MCP settings file (e.g., `~/Library/Application Support/Code/User/globalStorage/rooveterinaryinc.roo-cline/settings/cline_mcp_settings.json` for Cline):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "verdex": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["@verdex/mcp@latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Multi-Role Configuration

Test different user roles in isolated browser contexts:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "verdex": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@verdex/mcp@latest",
        "--role", "admin", "/path/to/admin-auth.json", "https://admin.example.com",
        "--role", "user", "/path/to/user-auth.json", "https://app.example.com"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Authentication File Format

Verdex leverages [Playwright's authentication approach](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth) using `storageState` files. These files contain cookies, localStorage, and session data.

Create auth files using Playwright's `storageState` format:

```json
{
  "cookies": [
    {
      "name": "session",
      "value": "abc123...",
      "domain": ".example.com",
      "path": "/",
      "httpOnly": true,
      "secure": true
    }
  ],
  "origins": [
    {
      "origin": "https://app.example.com",
      "localStorage": [
        { "name": "token", "value": "xyz789..." }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

**How to generate auth files:**

1. **Manual authentication** - Use Playwright's test setup:
   ```javascript
   // auth.setup.ts
   import { test as setup } from '@playwright/test';
   
   setup('authenticate', async ({ page }) => {
     await page.goto('https://example.com/login');
     await page.getByLabel('Email').fill('user@example.com');
     await page.getByLabel('Password').fill('password');
     await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Sign in' }).click();
     await page.waitForURL('https://example.com/dashboard');
     
     // Save authentication state
     await page.context().storageState({ 
       path: 'playwright/.auth/user.json' 
     });
   });
   ```

2. **Use saved state with Verdex** - Reference the file in your MCP config

See the [Playwright Authentication Guide](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth) for more details on creating and managing auth files.

---

## 🎯 How It Works

### The 3-Step Exploration Workflow

Verdex helps AI understand page structure through three complementary tools:

#### **Step 1: `get_ancestors` - Find Stable Containers**

Discovers the containment hierarchy and identifies stable scoping containers.

```javascript
// AI calls: get_ancestors(ref="e3")
// Returns:
Level 1 (div):
   Attributes: {"data-testid":"product-card"}
   Contains refs: e3, e4, e5

Level 2 (section):
   Attributes: {"class":"products-grid"}
   Contains refs: e1, e2, e3, e4...
```

**🎯 Purpose**: Find containers with `data-testid`, `id`, or semantic structure to scope selectors.

#### **Step 2: `get_siblings` - Understand Patterns**

Analyzes sibling elements to detect repeating patterns and uniqueness.

```javascript
// AI calls: get_siblings(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1)
// Returns:
Sibling 1 (div):
   Contains text: "iPhone 15 Pro", "$999"
   Contains refs: e3

Sibling 2 (div):
   Contains text: "Samsung S24", "$899"
   Contains refs: e6

// AI learns: Multiple product cards with unique product names
```

**🎯 Purpose**: Understand how to differentiate between similar elements using content.

#### **Step 3: `get_descendants` - Explore Internal Structure**

Explores the internal DOM tree to find semantic identifiers.

```javascript
// AI calls: get_descendants(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1)
// Returns:
Child 1 (h3):
   Direct Text: "iPhone 15 Pro"
   
Child 2 (button) [ref=e3]:
   Role: button
   Name: "Add to Cart"
```

**🎯 Purpose**: Discover text content, buttons, and ARIA roles for semantic targeting.

### Token Efficiency

| Approach | Tokens per Page | Coverage |
|----------|----------------|----------|
| Raw DOM dump | 10,000-50,000 | Complete but overwhelming |
| A11y tree only | 1,000-3,000 | Limited to interactive elements |
| **Verdex exploration** | **100-1,000 per call** | **Surgical, on-demand** |

**Verdict**: Verdex uses ~10-50x fewer tokens while providing richer structural context.

---

## 🛠️ Available Tools

### Core Browser Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `browser_initialize` | Start browser session |
| `browser_navigate` | Navigate to URL and capture page snapshot |
| `browser_snapshot` | Get current page's accessibility tree |
| `browser_click` | Click element by reference (e.g., `e1`, `e2`) |
| `browser_type` | Type text into input field |
| `browser_inspect` | Get detailed element attributes and bounds |
| `wait_for_browser` | Pause for page loads/animations |
| `browser_close` | Clean shutdown |

### DOM Exploration Tools (Use in Order)

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `get_ancestors` | Find containment hierarchy and stable containers |
| `get_siblings` | Analyze sibling patterns at specific level |
| `get_descendants` | Explore internal structure within container |

### Multi-Role Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `get_current_role` | Check active authentication context |
| `list_current_roles` | View all configured roles |
| `select_role` | Switch between authenticated sessions |

---

## 📖 Usage Examples

### Example 1: Adding a Product to Cart

```javascript
// 1. Navigate and explore
await browser_navigate("https://shop.example.com");

// 2. Find "Add to Cart" button for iPhone
// Snapshot shows [ref=e3] button

// 3. Understand structure
await get_ancestors(ref="e3");
// → Finds [data-testid="product-card"] at Level 1

// 4. Check siblings
await get_siblings(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1);
// → Multiple product cards, differentiated by product name

// 5. Explore internal structure
await get_descendants(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1);
// → h3 contains "iPhone 15 Pro", button has "Add to Cart"

// 6. Generate selector
page.getByTestId("product-card")
    .filter({ hasText: "iPhone 15 Pro" })
    .getByRole("button", { name: "Add to Cart" })
```

### Example 2: Multi-Role E2E Test

```javascript
// Admin creates promotion
await select_role("admin");
await browser_navigate("https://admin.example.com/promos");
// ... create promo code "SAVE20"

// User sees and uses promotion
await select_role("user");
await browser_navigate("https://shop.example.com");
// ... apply promo code "SAVE20"
// ... verify discount applied
```

---

## 🏗️ Technical Architecture

### CDP-Powered Isolated Worlds

- **Puppeteer + CDP**: Chrome DevTools Protocol for low-level browser control
- **Isolated JavaScript Contexts**: Each role runs in separate execution contexts
- **No DOM Pollution**: Bridge code doesn't interfere with application JavaScript
- **Persistent Analysis**: DOM refs remain stable across actions

### Multi-Role Browser Isolation

```
Browser Instance
├── Default Context (role: "default")
│   ├── Page 1 (about:blank)
│   └── CDP Session + Isolated World
│
├── Incognito Context (role: "admin")
│   ├── Page 1 (admin.example.com)
│   ├── Auth: admin-auth.json
│   └── CDP Session + Isolated World
│
└── Incognito Context (role: "user")
    ├── Page 1 (app.example.com)
    ├── Auth: user-auth.json
    └── CDP Session + Isolated World
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Complete session isolation (cookies, localStorage, cache)
- ✅ Parallel multi-user scenarios in one test session
- ✅ No manual context management

---

## 📊 Comparison with Playwright MCP

| Feature | Playwright MCP | Verdex MCP |
|---------|---------------|------------|
| **Selector Strategy** | Inspector/codegen + a11y tree | AI-guided structural exploration |
| **Multi-User Testing** | Manual context management | Built-in role isolation |
| **DOM Surface** | A11y-only abstraction | Reconcilable DOM refs for exploration |
| **Debug Loop** | Frequent GUI context switches | Stay in IDE with low-token probes |
| **Browser Support** | Chrome, Firefox, Safari | Chrome-only (CDP) |
| **Scope** | Full test runner + authoring | Authoring assistant only |
| **Maturity** | Production-ready, battle-tested | Experimental, niche use cases |

**When to use Verdex:**
- ✅ You're using AI assistants to write Playwright tests
- ✅ You need multi-role testing with pre-loaded auth
- ✅ You want semantic, component-scoped selectors
- ✅ Chrome-only is acceptable

**When to use Playwright MCP:**
- ✅ You need cross-browser support
- ✅ You want a complete test runner
- ✅ You prefer GUI-based debugging
- ✅ You need production-ready stability

**Verdict**: Playwright MCP is broad, stable, and battle-tested. Verdex explores a narrow, agent-first niche that may help AI-driven authoring workflows.

---

## ⚠️ Current Limitations

- **Chrome-only**: Uses Puppeteer/CDP (no Firefox/Safari)
- **Not a test runner**: Assists authoring; you still run tests in Playwright
- **Limited actions**: Fewer interaction primitives than Playwright MCP
- **Programmatic typing**: Sets input values directly, not full keypress simulation
- **No iframe support**: Currently doesn't handle cross-frame interactions
- **Large pages**: Very complex DOMs may need throttling/timeouts

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to help:

### Reporting Issues

Found a bug or have a feature request? [Open an issue](https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp/issues)

### Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repo
git clone https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp.git
cd verdex-mcp

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Run tests
npm test

# Start in dev mode
npm run dev
```

### Areas We'd Love Help With

- **Token efficiency benchmarks**: Measure actual token usage vs. alternatives
- **Extra probes**: Computed visibility, ARIA relationships, layout metrics
- **iframe support**: Cross-frame DOM exploration
- **More browser actions**: Drag-and-drop, hover states, keyboard navigation
- **Documentation**: More examples, video tutorials

---

## 📚 Resources

- **GitHub**: https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp
- **npm Package**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@verdex/mcp
- **Issues**: https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp/issues
- **MCP Documentation**: https://modelcontextprotocol.io
- **Playwright Best Practices**: https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Huge respect to the [Playwright MCP](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright) team and the [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) creators. Verdex explores adjacent ideas inspired by their excellent work. 🚀

---

## 📄 License

Apache 2.0 - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

---

## 💬 Feedback Welcome

This is an experimental project. If you're building AI-assisted testing workflows, we'd love to hear:

- Do you care about token efficiency? What benchmarks matter to you?
- What other DOM exploration tools would be useful?
- What multi-role testing patterns do you need?

**[Share your thoughts in Discussions →](https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp/discussions)**

---

<div align="center">

**Built with ❤️ for the AI coding assistant era**

[⭐ Star on GitHub](https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp) | [📦 Install from npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@verdex/mcp)

</div>

Commit message:

Add comprehensive Quick Start experience
- Add QUICKSTART.md with 60-second demo walkthrough
- Add examples/CHEAT_SHEET.md with tool reference and patterns
- Add examples/README.md with learning path
- Update main README.md with quick start links
- Create demo-quickstart.spec.ts with 13 working examples

The quick start demonstrates Verdex's value in under 60 seconds using
the existing demo-page.html (no test infrastructure required).

Key features:
- Copy-paste prompts for 5+ realistic scenarios
- Token efficiency comparison
- Before/after selector examples
- Progressive learning path from simple to complex

README.md, after:

# Verdex MCP

> **AI-First Browser Automation for Building Robust Playwright Tests**

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@verdex/mcp.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@verdex/mcp)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![MCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Model%20Context%20Protocol-green.svg)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)

Verdex is an experimental Chrome/CDP MCP server that helps AI coding assistants (like Cursor, Claude, etc.) author stable, maintainable Playwright tests. Instead of generating brittle `nth()` selectors, Verdex provides structured DOM exploration tools that guide LLMs to create component-scoped selectors anchored to semantic identifiers.

**🎯 Problem**: AI-generated Playwright tests often rely on fragile positional selectors (`nth(8)`, deep locator chains) that break when DOM structure changes.

**✨ Solution**: Verdex exposes token-efficient DOM exploration primitives that help AI understand page structure and generate idiomatic, stable Playwright selectors.

---

## ✨ Key Features

- **🔍 Structured DOM Exploration** - Three-step workflow (`get_ancestors` → `get_siblings` → `get_descendants`) to understand page structure with minimal tokens (100-1K per call vs. 10K+ for raw DOM dumps)
- **👥 Multi-Role Isolation** - Test multi-user flows in isolated browser contexts with pre-loaded authentication
- **🎯 Semantic Selector Generation** - Guide LLMs to create selectors using `data-testid`, `getByRole()`, and content filters instead of brittle positions
- **🤖 AI-First Design** - Built for LLM consumption with compact, structured responses and clear tool descriptions
- **🔒 CDP-Powered Isolation** - Each role runs in isolated JavaScript execution contexts, preventing interference with app code

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

Verdex uses a **bundled bridge injection** approach for maximum stability and debuggability:

- **Pre-bundled Bridge**: DOM analysis code is bundled once with esbuild (not serialized on every page load)
- **CDP Auto-Injection**: Bridge automatically injects into a named isolated world via `Page.addScriptToEvaluateOnNewDocument`
- **Event-Driven Discovery**: Uses `Runtime.executionContextCreated` to track isolated worlds across navigations
- **SPA-Aware**: Distinguishes full navigations from same-document transitions to minimize stalls
- **Source Maps**: Dev builds include inline source maps for easy debugging with Chrome DevTools

This architecture eliminates brittle string serialization and ensures the bridge survives page reloads, full navigations, and SPA route changes.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

> **👉 [Try the 60-Second Demo](QUICKSTART.md)** - See Verdex in action with a realistic demo page (no test infrastructure required!)

### 1. Install via npx (no installation required)

```bash
npx @verdex/mcp@latest
```

### 2. Add to your MCP settings

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "verdex": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["@verdex/mcp@latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

### 3. Use with your AI coding assistant

```
User: "Help me write a Playwright test that adds an iPhone to the cart"

AI: Let me explore the page structure first...
  → get_ancestors(ref="e3") 
  → Finds container hierarchy
  → get_siblings() 
  → Sees 12 product cards
  → get_descendants() 
  → Finds unique "iPhone 15 Pro" heading

AI generates:
  await page
    .locator('section > div')
    .filter({ hasText: "iPhone 15 Pro" })
    .getByRole("button", { name: "Add to Cart" })
    .click();
```

**vs. typical AI output without Verdex:**
```javascript
await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Add to Cart' }).nth(8); // 😱 Fragile!
```

---

## 📦 Usage & Installation

### Option 1: npx (Recommended - No Installation Required)

Run on-demand without installing:

```bash
npx @verdex/mcp@latest
```

This fetches and runs the latest version automatically. Perfect for MCP configurations.

### Option 2: Global Installation

Install once, run anywhere:

```bash
npm install -g @verdex/mcp
verdex-mcp
```

### Option 3: Local Development

For contributing or customization:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp.git
cd verdex-mcp
npm install
npm run build
node dist/index.js
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Basic MCP Configuration

Add to your MCP settings file (e.g., `~/Library/Application Support/Code/User/globalStorage/rooveterinaryinc.roo-cline/settings/cline_mcp_settings.json` for Cline):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "verdex": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["@verdex/mcp@latest"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Multi-Role Configuration

Test different user roles in isolated browser contexts:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "verdex": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@verdex/mcp@latest",
        "--role", "admin", "/path/to/admin-auth.json", "https://admin.example.com",
        "--role", "user", "/path/to/user-auth.json", "https://app.example.com"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Authentication File Format

Verdex leverages [Playwright's authentication approach](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth) using `storageState` files. These files contain cookies, localStorage, and session data.

Create auth files using Playwright's `storageState` format:

```json
{
  "cookies": [
    {
      "name": "session",
      "value": "abc123...",
      "domain": ".example.com",
      "path": "/",
      "httpOnly": true,
      "secure": true
    }
  ],
  "origins": [
    {
      "origin": "https://app.example.com",
      "localStorage": [
        { "name": "token", "value": "xyz789..." }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

**How to generate auth files:**

1. **Manual authentication** - Use Playwright's test setup:
   ```javascript
   // auth.setup.ts
   import { test as setup } from '@playwright/test';
   
   setup('authenticate', async ({ page }) => {
     await page.goto('https://example.com/login');
     await page.getByLabel('Email').fill('user@example.com');
     await page.getByLabel('Password').fill('password');
     await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Sign in' }).click();
     await page.waitForURL('https://example.com/dashboard');
     
     // Save authentication state
     await page.context().storageState({ 
       path: 'playwright/.auth/user.json' 
     });
   });
   ```

2. **Use saved state with Verdex** - Reference the file in your MCP config

See the [Playwright Authentication Guide](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth) for more details on creating and managing auth files.

---

## 🎯 How It Works

> **Want to see this in action?** Check out the [60-Second Demo](QUICKSTART.md) with a realistic e-commerce page.

### The 3-Step Exploration Workflow

Verdex helps AI understand page structure through three complementary tools:

#### **Step 1: `get_ancestors` - Find Stable Containers**

Discovers the containment hierarchy and identifies stable scoping containers.

```javascript
// AI calls: get_ancestors(ref="e3")
// Returns:
Level 1 (div):
   Attributes: {"data-testid":"product-card"}
   Contains refs: e3, e4, e5

Level 2 (section):
   Attributes: {"class":"products-grid"}
   Contains refs: e1, e2, e3, e4...
```

**🎯 Purpose**: Find containers with `data-testid`, `id`, or semantic structure to scope selectors.

#### **Step 2: `get_siblings` - Understand Patterns**

Analyzes sibling elements to detect repeating patterns and uniqueness.

```javascript
// AI calls: get_siblings(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1)
// Returns:
Sibling 1 (div):
   Contains text: "iPhone 15 Pro", "$999"
   Contains refs: e3

Sibling 2 (div):
   Contains text: "Samsung S24", "$899"
   Contains refs: e6

// AI learns: Multiple product cards with unique product names
```

**🎯 Purpose**: Understand how to differentiate between similar elements using content.

#### **Step 3: `get_descendants` - Explore Internal Structure**

Explores the internal DOM tree to find semantic identifiers.

```javascript
// AI calls: get_descendants(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1)
// Returns:
Child 1 (h3):
   Direct Text: "iPhone 15 Pro"
   
Child 2 (button) [ref=e3]:
   Role: button
   Name: "Add to Cart"
```

**🎯 Purpose**: Discover text content, buttons, and ARIA roles for semantic targeting.

### Token Efficiency

| Approach | Tokens per Page | Coverage |
|----------|----------------|----------|
| Raw DOM dump | 10,000-50,000 | Complete but overwhelming |
| A11y tree only | 1,000-3,000 | Limited to interactive elements |
| **Verdex exploration** | **100-1,000 per call** | **Surgical, on-demand** |

**Verdict**: Verdex uses ~10-50x fewer tokens while providing richer structural context.

---

## 🛠️ Available Tools

### Core Browser Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `browser_initialize` | Start browser session |
| `browser_navigate` | Navigate to URL and capture page snapshot |
| `browser_snapshot` | Get current page's accessibility tree |
| `browser_click` | Click element by reference (e.g., `e1`, `e2`) |
| `browser_type` | Type text into input field |
| `browser_inspect` | Get detailed element attributes and bounds |
| `wait_for_browser` | Pause for page loads/animations |
| `browser_close` | Clean shutdown |

### DOM Exploration Tools (Use in Order)

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `get_ancestors` | Find containment hierarchy and stable containers |
| `get_siblings` | Analyze sibling patterns at specific level |
| `get_descendants` | Explore internal structure within container |

### Multi-Role Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `get_current_role` | Check active authentication context |
| `list_current_roles` | View all configured roles |
| `select_role` | Switch between authenticated sessions |

---

## 📖 Usage Examples

### Example 1: Adding a Product to Cart

```javascript
// 1. Navigate and explore
await browser_navigate("https://shop.example.com");

// 2. Find "Add to Cart" button for iPhone
// Snapshot shows [ref=e3] button

// 3. Understand structure
await get_ancestors(ref="e3");
// → Finds [data-testid="product-card"] at Level 1

// 4. Check siblings
await get_siblings(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1);
// → Multiple product cards, differentiated by product name

// 5. Explore internal structure
await get_descendants(ref="e3", ancestorLevel=1);
// → h3 contains "iPhone 15 Pro", button has "Add to Cart"

// 6. Generate selector
page.getByTestId("product-card")
    .filter({ hasText: "iPhone 15 Pro" })
    .getByRole("button", { name: "Add to Cart" })
```

### Example 2: Multi-Role E2E Test

```javascript
// Admin creates promotion
await select_role("admin");
await browser_navigate("https://admin.example.com/promos");
// ... create promo code "SAVE20"

// User sees and uses promotion
await select_role("user");
await browser_navigate("https://shop.example.com");
// ... apply promo code "SAVE20"
// ... verify discount applied
```

---

## 🏗️ Technical Architecture

### CDP-Powered Isolated Worlds

- **Puppeteer + CDP**: Chrome DevTools Protocol for low-level browser control
- **Isolated JavaScript Contexts**: Each role runs in separate execution contexts
- **No DOM Pollution**: Bridge code doesn't interfere with application JavaScript
- **Persistent Analysis**: DOM refs remain stable across actions

### Multi-Role Browser Isolation

```
Browser Instance
├── Default Context (role: "default")
│   ├── Page 1 (about:blank)
│   └── CDP Session + Isolated World
│
├── Incognito Context (role: "admin")
│   ├── Page 1 (admin.example.com)
│   ├── Auth: admin-auth.json
│   └── CDP Session + Isolated World
│
└── Incognito Context (role: "user")
    ├── Page 1 (app.example.com)
    ├── Auth: user-auth.json
    └── CDP Session + Isolated World
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Complete session isolation (cookies, localStorage, cache)
- ✅ Parallel multi-user scenarios in one test session
- ✅ No manual context management

---

## 📊 Comparison with Playwright MCP

| Feature | Playwright MCP | Verdex MCP |
|---------|---------------|------------|
| **Selector Strategy** | Inspector/codegen + a11y tree | AI-guided structural exploration |
| **Multi-User Testing** | Manual context management | Built-in role isolation |
| **DOM Surface** | A11y-only abstraction | Reconcilable DOM refs for exploration |
| **Debug Loop** | Frequent GUI context switches | Stay in IDE with low-token probes |
| **Browser Support** | Chrome, Firefox, Safari | Chrome-only (CDP) |
| **Scope** | Full test runner + authoring | Authoring assistant only |
| **Maturity** | Production-ready, battle-tested | Experimental, niche use cases |

**When to use Verdex:**
- ✅ You're using AI assistants to write Playwright tests
- ✅ You need multi-role testing with pre-loaded auth
- ✅ You want semantic, component-scoped selectors
- ✅ Chrome-only is acceptable

**When to use Playwright MCP:**
- ✅ You need cross-browser support
- ✅ You want a complete test runner
- ✅ You prefer GUI-based debugging
- ✅ You need production-ready stability

**Verdict**: Playwright MCP is broad, stable, and battle-tested. Verdex explores a narrow, agent-first niche that may help AI-driven authoring workflows.

---

## ⚠️ Current Limitations

- **Chrome-only**: Uses Puppeteer/CDP (no Firefox/Safari)
- **Not a test runner**: Assists authoring; you still run tests in Playwright
- **Limited actions**: Fewer interaction primitives than Playwright MCP
- **Programmatic typing**: Sets input values directly, not full keypress simulation
- **No iframe support**: Currently doesn't handle cross-frame interactions
- **Large pages**: Very complex DOMs may need throttling/timeouts

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to help:

### Reporting Issues

Found a bug or have a feature request? [Open an issue](https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp/issues)

### Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repo
git clone https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp.git
cd verdex-mcp

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Run tests
npm test

# Start in dev mode
npm run dev
```

### Areas We'd Love Help With

- **Token efficiency benchmarks**: Measure actual token usage vs. alternatives
- **Extra probes**: Computed visibility, ARIA relationships, layout metrics
- **iframe support**: Cross-frame DOM exploration
- **More browser actions**: Drag-and-drop, hover states, keyboard navigation
- **Documentation**: More examples, video tutorials

---

## 📚 Resources

### Getting Started
- **[60-Second Quick Start](QUICKSTART.md)** - Hands-on demo with realistic examples
- **[Cheat Sheet](examples/CHEAT_SHEET.md)** - Quick reference for tools and patterns
- **[Example Tests](tests/demo-quickstart.spec.ts)** - Working Playwright test examples
- **[Demo Page](tests/demo-page.html)** - Realistic e-commerce page for testing

### Links
- **GitHub**: https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp
- **npm Package**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@verdex/mcp
- **Issues**: https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp/issues
- **Discussions**: https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp/discussions

### Related Resources
- **MCP Documentation**: https://modelcontextprotocol.io
- **Playwright Best Practices**: https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices
- **Playwright Authentication Guide**: https://playwright.dev/docs/auth

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Huge respect to the [Playwright MCP](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright) team and the [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) creators. Verdex explores adjacent ideas inspired by their excellent work. 🚀

---

## 📄 License

Apache 2.0 - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

---

## 💬 Feedback Welcome

This is an experimental project. If you're building AI-assisted testing workflows, we'd love to hear:

- Do you care about token efficiency? What benchmarks matter to you?
- What other DOM exploration tools would be useful?
- What multi-role testing patterns do you need?

**[Share your thoughts in Discussions →](https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp/discussions)**

---

<div align="center">

**Built with ❤️ for the AI coding assistant era**

[⭐ Star on GitHub](https://github.com/verdexhq/verdex-mcp) | [📦 Install from npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@verdex/mcp)

</div>
